
#Geo Search

This documentation discusses how to use the SRCH2 engine to do powerful geo search (location-based search). The engine can index records with location information specified as a latitude and a longitude, and do search based on both keywords and locations. For example, we can use the engine to find stores called "ghirardelli" within two miles to a location in San Francisco.  The engine provides all the features such as instant search and fuzzy search, making it easy to develop an application to provide great user experiences.

##1. Configuration

To enable geo indexing we need to have two fields with the type "location_latitude" and "location_longitude", respectively. For example:

```
<field name="lat" type="location_latitude"/>
<field name="lng" type="location_longitude"/>
```
Each record should have two corresponding values for these two types, and they should be float numbers.  For example:
```
 {"id" : "1234", "name" : "ghirardelli", "category" : "chocolate", "lat" : 43.22, "lng": -80.22}
```


##2. Query

If geo indexing is used, a geo query can use one of the following two ways to define a geo region to search on:

 - Specify a bounding box:

>  * "lblat": the latitude of the left-bottom point of the bounding box;

>  * "lblong": the longitude of the left-bottom point of the bounding box;

>  * "rtlat": the latitude of the top-right point of the bounding box;

>  * "rtlong": the longitude of the top-right point of the bounding box.

 - Specify a center point and a radius:

> * "clat": the latitude of the center point;

> * "clong": the longitude of the center point;

> * "radius": the radius of the circle in degree.


The following is an example geo query:
```
 curl -i "http://localhost:8081/search?q=girardelli&start=0&rows=20&lblat=61.20&lblong=-149.90&rtlat=61.22&rtlong=-149.70"
```

###3. Geo Query Ranking

The engine ranks each result using a score that combines its textual similarity with the query keywords and its geo distance to the location specified in the query.

