#Search in MongoDB 

##1. Overview

This tutorial shows how to use SRCH2 to do powerful text search on [MongoDB](http://www.mongodb.org/). We assume that you have already downloaded and installed MongoDB, and its "bin" directory is already included in your PATH environment variable so that you can run those MongoDB commands easily. 

Notice that the SRCH2 engine works with a MongoDB server running with the replication mode enabled. Follow these [instructions](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/tutorial/convert-standalone-to-replica-set/) to enable this mode.  The MongoDB host specified in the configuration file should be the primary of the replica set.  The SRCH2 engine collects incremental inserts/deletes/updates on MongoDB from its oplog.

##2. Populate MongoDB

Download a <a href=../example-demo/movie-data.json>sample data file</a> with movie information to a local folder. Run the following MongoDB command to insert those records into a collection called "movies" in a database called "demo".

```
shell> mongoimport --db demo --collection movies --type json --file movie-data.json 
```
To check if the data has been loaded, run following commands:

```
shell> mongo
mongodb> use demo
mongodb> db.movies.find().count()
```

There should be 243 movies in the "movies" collection.

##3. Configure SRCH2

Download a sample <a href="../example-demo/srch2-config.xml">configuration file</a> for the SRCH2 engine.  Find the following lines inside the <i>config</i> element to specify information about this MongoDB data source:
 
```
    <dataSourceType>2</dataSourceType>
    <mongodb>
        <host>localhost</host>
        <port>27017</port>
        <db>demo</db>
        <collection>movies</collection>
        <listenerWaitTime>3</listenerWaitTime>
    </mongodb>
```

Change the parameters if needed.  Make sure that you have also set the "srch2Home" variable in the SRCH2 configuration file. All other paths mentioned in the configuration file are relative to the "srch2Home" folder.

##4. Start SRCH2 Engine

Go to the install folder of SRCH2 and run the following:

```python
shell> ./bin/srch2-engine --config-file=./example-demo/srch2-config.xml
```

The engine should read the data from the MongoDB instance, build indexes, and wait for queries. It also starts a thread that periodically pulls latest changes from MongoDB (as specified by the "listenerWaitTime" parameter) and add these changes to its search indexes.

##5. Search

In a shell, run the following command:

```
shell> curl "http://localhost:8081/search?q=terminator"
```
You should see the records with the keyword "terminator".

##6. Insertion

In the MongoDB client, run the following command to insert a new record.
```
mongodb> db.movies.insert(
{
"trailer_url" : "http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QHhZK-g7wHo",
"title" : "Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines",
"director" : "James Cameron",
"year" : NumberLong(2003),
"banner_url" : "http://ia.media-imdb.com/images/M/MV5BMTk5NzM1ODgyN15BMl5BanBnXkFtZTcwMzA5MjAzMw@@._V1_SY317_CR0,0,214,317_.jpg",
"id" : NumberLong(765006),
"genre" : "drama"
});

```

This command inserts a new record into MongoDB.  Wait for about 3-4 seconds for the SRCH2 server to pull the change. Do the above search query again. The search engine should return this newly inserted record. Notice that the wait time depends upon your configuration such as [listenerWaitTime](configuration.mkd#63-mongodb-required-if-datasourcetype-is-2) and [merge policy](configuration.mkd#63-mongodb-required-if-datasourcetype-is-2).  It is suggested to wait for "listenerWaitTime + mergeEveryNSeconds" seconds.

##7. Update

The record we inserted has a wrong director "James Cameron." The correct director is Jonathan Mostow. To fix the error, run the following command in the MongoDB shell to update the record:
```
mongodb> db.movies.update( { id: 765006 },
{
$set: { director: "Jonathan Mostow" },
});

```

Wait for about 3-4 seconds for the SRCH2 server to pull the change, then do the above search query again. The SRCH2 engine should be able to return this updated record, with "Jonathan Mostow" as the <i>director</i> value.

##8. Deletion

Run the following command in the MongoDB shell to delete the updated record:
```
mongodb> db.movies.remove({"id" : 765006 });
```

Again, wait for about 3-4 seconds for the SRCH2 server to pull the change, then do the above search query again. The SRCH2 engine should not return the record that we just deleted.

